# Git notes

## Here is the guideline for writing a full git commit.

A subject which contains the title of the git commit. This should be limited to 50 characters and should be separated from the rest of the commit with a blank line.

Explanatory text explaining what has been changed and why the change was necessary. Write in the imperative mood e.g. “Fix bug causing outage” rather than “Fixed bug causing outage”.

> Write your commit message in the imperative: _“Fix bug”_ and not _“Fixed bug”_ or _“Fixes bug”_. This convention matches up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

Imperatives are used principally for ordering, requesting or advising the listener to do (or not to do) something: _"Put down the gun!"_; _"Pass me the sauce"_; _"Don't go too near the tiger."_ They are also often used for giving instructions as to how to perform a task _("Install the file, then restart your computer")_. They can sometimes be seen on signs giving orders or warnings _("Stop"; "Give way"; "Do not enter")_.


## Git commit message

A commit message should answer three primary questions;

* Why is this change necessary?
* How does this commit address the issue?
* What effects does this change have?


## Writing A Proper Git Commit

1. To write a git commit, start by typing git commit on your Terminal or Command Prompt which brings up a Vim interface for entering the commit message.

2. Type the subject of your commit on the first line. Remember to keep it short _(not more than 50 characters)_. Leave a blank line after.

3. Write a detailed description of what happened in the committed change. Use multiple paragraphs and bullet points to give a detailed breakdown. Don’t write everything out on one line, instead, wrap text at 72 characters.

4. Press Esc and then type `:wq` to save and exit.



<https://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html>

<https://medium.com/@steveamaza/how-to-write-a-proper-git-commit-message-e028865e5791>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperative_mood>

